Hi, guys, in this lesson, we're going to launch a couple of instances into IWC.
We're going to launch a Windows instance and a Linux instance.
Now what we're going to do is launch them in what's called a public subnet.
Now, the public subnet means that we're able to connect from the internet to our two instances.
So we have within a region, a virtual private cloud and a virtual private cloud is a virtual data center
in which you can actually have your resources.
Now, your resources are essentially private within the VPC.
But accessibility can be public.
So within an availability zone, we have something called a public subnet.
You can also have private subnets, and those mean that you can't connect from the internet with a public
subnet.
You can.
So let's say we have the AWB management console, and what we're going to do is launch an active instance.
We'll create one with windows and one with a Linux operating systems.
Now each instance has a hard drive.
In this case, it's a virtual hard drive, and that's where the data is stored, and that's known as
an elastic block store volume EBS.
We also need a security group.
This determines which ports, protocols and IP addresses we can connect from.
So it functions as a firewall, securing access to our instances.
Security groups can control inbound and outbound traffic.
We also need something called an internet gateway.
This is attached to a VPC, and it's the way that we can connect to the outside world to the internet.
So when we want to connect in to our EC2 instance, we're actually connected to the internet gateway
and then from there to the easy to instance.
So that's just a little bit to help you understand what's going on on the back end.
Now let's go and launch EC2 instances on IWC.
So this is the easy to management console.
Now there's quite a lot going on here.
Firstly, I just want to point out the easy two is a regional service, so we have to select the region
where we want to run EC2 instances.
So I'm in the US east North Virginia, which is US East one.
So on the left hand side here, there's quite a lot of different features, you can launch instances
and view your instances here.
You can look at instance types, launch templates, what requests?
Now there's quite a lot going on.
You don't need to know about all of it now, but we're going to learn about it all in this course.
We've got the images.
The AMA is the Amazon Machine Images, Elastic Block Store, which is the storage volumes that the two
instances use.
And then there's some network and security load balancing and also scaling all stuff we're going to
cover.
So let's not get too deep into that now.
I want to start off simple, and we're just going to launch a couple of instances.
We can launch an instance by choosing this button here.
And once we do that, we have to first select the Amazon machine image.
So remember, this determines the operating system, any pre-installed software and configuration for
your operating system or applications.
Now, to start off, you see a whole list of emails that come from Amazon themselves.
We've got the Linux two AMA.
You can see there's Mac OS, there's Red Hat, Enterprise, Linux, Susie Buntu and Microsoft Windows
Server and many more.
Now also on the left hand side here you can see if you've got your own emails.
We don't have any at this stage.
There's also a marketplace where you'll find some software preinstalled on an am-I and you'll pay a
bit more in your hourly rate for these.
So, for example, you've got Juniper Networks, which provides a firewall or trend micro for security.
So there's a lot of AMS and there's also community AMS, and these are ones that have been shared by
other IWC users.
We're going to go back up to a quick start and we'll be using the Amazon Linux two mine.
So we click on select on the right hand side.
On this page, we need to choose the instance type.
The instance type determines the hardware profile.
So how many CPU's, how much RAM, what type of storage as well.
In this case, the T2 Micro is selected by default, and that's free to eligible, so it's not going
to cost us anything as long as we stick within the limits.
If you want a more powerful instance, then there's lots of options and as you can see, there's different
categories.
We've got the tattoos, then you've got the tea freeze, T 4s, c fours and so on.
Now these are all optimized for different use cases.
For instance, the C range optimized for compute.
And then there's other instance types that are optimized to have more RAM or better storage performance.
So what we're going to do at this stage is just keep with the T2 microarray, because that's fine for
our purposes.
Let's click on next.
And here there's quite a lot that you can configure, but we don't need to change anything.
So all of this will be explained later on.
We're going to just leave the defaults at this stage and then click on next for storage.
We have a single volume, which is eight gigabytes in size, and it uses a general purpose volume type.
Again, this is something we'll cover later on in the course, but this is your elastic block store
volume.
Let's just choose next.
We don't need any tanks at this stage.
Let's configure our security group.
I'm going to create a security group called Web Access, and I'm going to put that in the group name
and the description.
So a security group is basically a firewall.
It determines the protocols that we can use to connect to our instance, for our Linux instance.
We'll be connecting over the secure shell associated protocol, which uses Port 22, and the source
is any IP address.
So the 0.0.0.0 slash theory means any source address.
So that means we'll be able to connect from our computers at home.
I'm next going to choose review and launch and launch.
At this stage, we don't have a keeper, so we need to create one key pairs I use for connecting securely
to all instances.
So we're going to choose create a new keeper, and I'm going to call this one Cloud Labs Dash Envy.
So I know that it's for the North Virginia region, and then I'm just going to download the keeper.
Now you do need to keep this somewhere securely.
You're going to need to use it to access your instance.
So then we can choose launch instances.
Once the instance has been launched, we can choose view instances.
And here we can see that it's actually being launched.
We're now going to launch our Windows instance, so we choose launch instances at the top right.
This time, I'm going to scroll down until I find Microsoft Windows Server 2019 base, which again is
free to eligible.
I'm going to select Stick with the T2 Micro.
She's next.
And again, we don't need to make any changes at this point in time so we can click all the way free.
And this time under security group, we choose select an existing security group and we choose web access.
Now, Windows actually uses a different protocol for us to connect to it remotely called the Remote
Desktop Protocol, so SSL is not going to be sufficient, but that's OK.
We can click, review and launch.
It's going to warn us that we don't have Port Free, Free eight nine open.
We're going to do that afterwards.
So we just choose Continue launch.
We can acknowledge the existing keypad here and then launch instances.
And now we have our second instance being launched.
Now we do need to make sure that we can connect to our Windows instance.
So what I'm going to do is scroll down to security groups, find my security group, choose inbound
rules, click on Edit, and I need to add an inbound roll.
And this time I'm just going to type in ADP.
It will pre configure the port range for me so that now I'm able to connect to using the remote desktop
protocol, and I want to be able to connect from anywhere.
So I choose anywhere, and it will automatically include the ability to connect from any IP version
four or six address.
I don't need version six, so I just keep this one and click on save rules.
So that will now enable the two roles that we need to be able to connect to, for instance, in another
lesson.
Now I'm going to come back up two instances, and just so I remember what is what, I'm going to give
these names.
So this one is going to be called Linux.
And then this other one will be called Windows.
So now it's easy to identify in the console.
That's it for this lesson.
We now have a Linux instance and a Windows instance running in the cloud.
And in the next lesson, we'll see how we can connect to them.